# COBOL Working Group Meeting - May 26, 2022

## Information

The COBOL Working Group meeting is open for anyone interested in participating on the working group. Generally, meetings are scheduled virtually on the fourth Thursday of every month at 18:30 UTC.

To join, you will need to register for the meeting: https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/91473612203

## Meeting Recording

A recording of the meeting and the transcript are both available at the link below.

https://zoom.us/rec/share/ya_0CWGd-t1egLjRYiaxryLEC5B7zvkdyQnFzgMwC6nF3sxwm8qGn7JHSp1_retZ.TqbZQtTuxBwC7CCy

Passcode: `4KQ^%5WG`

## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at [http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy). If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

## Attendance

- Misty Decker, Micro Focus
- Reg Harbeck, Mainframe Analytics Ltd.
- Hilary Carter, The Linux Foundation
- Cameron Seay, East Carolina University / Tennessee State University
- Derek Britton, Micro Focus
- Len Santalucia, Vicom Infinity
- John Mertic, The Linux Foundation

## Notes

- Hilary Carter introduces her effort as the VP of Research for The Linux Foundation to describe open source communities, opportunites, projects and shed light on why people come from different communities to contribute to problem solving and to dispel myths and misperceptions about what is going on and why open source matters.
  
  - The rest of the COBOL Working Group members introduces themselves.

- Derek Britton share the group's vision to see why COBOL as a language is a sensible thing to consider now and into the future.

  - One of the way was via a survey, which found out that COBOL was more widespread and popular than what people believe.

  - Micro Focus conducted a similar study that came to the same conclusion.

  - The COBOL Working Group want to find a way to take the information and pull it into something more meaningful and credible for more widespread conversations, including the decision makers.

  - Misty Decker adds that unconscious bias applies as well to technologies as there is an intrinsic motivation for decision makers to pick technology that feels better and cooler.

    - COBOL was seen as old and often dismissed because of its age, and how it looks different than other languages.

  - The surveys only asked practical questions to make argument about COBOL. The research did not set about to ask questions about technology or cultural bias, and was not in scope of the survey did.
  
  - Hilary Carter mentioned about the theory of transformation and overcoming bias that stems from leadership and risk taking.

    - Key Point: Who else outside of the working group understands that? 

    - Issue: We are not exploring something new, but overcoming long existing bias.

  - We need to find new generation of champions that understand that refreshing what's already working is better than throwing it away.

  - Misty Decker: "The only way to get people over the hurdle is to show them something that has changed, and allow them to believe that they were right, but now it's all different for a reason."

    - Key Point: Need to put together a story of what is different now. Why is now the time to embrace your COBOL applications.

  - COBOL has and always been adaptable to the environment, and it's extremely backward compatible. That value led to decade of poor maintenance of the environments, leaving business to take COBOL for granted.

    - World around those COBOL application is much more dynamic and those things that have been neglected to run the business for decades now isn't able to.

    - The environment around the language is now more demanding. The way people treat their COBOL application have to change.

  - Hilary Carter: Talking about bias, identifying the problem is a very good way to begin to overcome the problem.
  
    - A way to proceed is to identify the topic, problem we want to solve through a piece of research, outcome and how to get there.

    - Example: Having a roundtable with SME and confronting them about the problem, producing a research deliverable.
